---
title: "Title of the page"
description: "meta description of the page"
---

# RefReactiveDefault

Great so now I can start writing.

```ts [file.js]{4-6,7} meta-info=val
export default () => {
  console.log("Code block");
};
```

RefReactiveDefault
Through out the many components that I developed having the components state managed by its parent always felt a bit odd to me.
The parent passes the value as a property and the component updates the parent of any changes. Although the value is clearly the responsibility of the child, the parent is the one taking care of it.

Therefore I would like to propose that the child would keep track of the value and the parent can set an initial value and can receive updates, but even without all this wired up the component can still function independently.
To support this I've written a little helper composable; refReactiveDefault.
Because in some situations, before the child control updates the initial value, the initial value can still change (for example when it is collected from an API).

One owner of state
Doesn't happen often that you need to update data in multiple places. Often it goes like this: one place for the initial data and then the child takes over. If not then you also don't need a v-model or update emit and is the value just a property.
It is not a good design if multiple components own the data (can make updates to it). 
Just because the parent needs to set an initial value, this doesn't mean it should own the state.
Clear interfaces: without going into a component it should be clear how it works
