---
title: "refReactiveDefault title"
description: "meta description of the page"
category: Vue.js
author: jeroenbach
datePublished: 2024-11-05T08:00:00
dateModified: 2024-11-05T08:00:00
imgCoverUrl: /posts/1/cover.jpeg
readTime: 10 min
draft: true
---

A helper tool that will let you stick to true component design. Implement this component alsdfksa ldfjlksadlfjlaskdf lsa ldajklfds

<!--more-->

Splitting your UI into independent and reusable pieces is the basis of component design. Within vue the only peculiar part is when you want to provide an initial value to a component. When we do this, we need to lift the state out of the component into the parent, breaking open the "black box" (encapsulation) and making the parent know to much about the innerworking of our component, let's say you don't provide the value as a parent or you don't subscribe to the update event, at that point your component stops working.

::code-group

```vue [Parent.vue]
<script lang="ts" setup>
const value = ref("Hello world");
</script>
<template>
  <label>This works<label>
  <Child :modelValue="value" @update:modelValue="value = $event" />
  <Child v-model="value" />
  <!-- This breaks the inner working of the child component -->
  <Child :modelValue="value" /> // [!code  focus]
</template>
```

```vue [Child.vue]
<script lang="ts" setup>
defineProps<{ modelValue?: string }>();
defineEmits(["update:modelValue"]);
</script>
<template>
  <input
    :value="modelValue"
    @input="
      $emit('update:modelValue', ($event.target as HTMLInputElement).value)
    "
  />
</template>
```

::post2-example1{label="Preview"}
::

::

No tabs

::code-group

````js [config.js]
const config = {
  // ...
};
```
::

> Quote here.
>
> -- <cite>Benjamin Franklin</cite>


---------------------- end tryout


```vue
// Parent.vue
<script lang="ts" setup>
const value = ref("Hello world");
</script>
<template>
  <label>This works<label>
  <Child :modelValue="value" @update:modelValue="value = $event" />
  <Child v-model="value" />
  <!-- This breaks the inner working of the child component -->
  <Child :modelValue="value" />
</template>
```

```vue
// Child.vue
<script lang="ts" setup>
defineProps<{ modelValue?: string }>();
defineEmits(["update:modelValue"]);
</script>
<template>
  <input
    :value="modelValue"
    @input="
      $emit('update:modelValue', ($event.target as HTMLInputElement).value)
    "
  />
</template>
```

::post2-example2
::

Lately I've started to adopt a pattern where I let each component be the owner of it's state, only updating the parent when needed.

```vue [file.js]{4-6,7} meta-info=val
export default () => { console.log("Code block"); };
```

I've always been a fan of encapsulation. Therefore managing a components state in the parent always felt a bit odd to me.

A nother added benifit is that your component will just work in storybook.

RefReactiveDefault
Through out the many components that I developed having the components state managed by its parent always felt a bit odd to me.
The parent passes the value as a property and the component updates the parent of any changes. Although the value is clearly the responsibility of the child, the parent is the one taking care of it.

Therefore I would like to propose that the child would keep track of the value and the parent can set an initial value and can receive updates, but even without all this wired up the component can still function independently.
To support this I've written a little helper composable; refReactiveDefault.
Because in some situations, before the child control updates the initial value, the initial value can still change (for example when it is collected from an API).

One owner of state
Doesn't happen often that you need to update data in multiple places. Often it goes like this: one place for the initial data and then the child takes over. If not then you also don't need a v-model or update emit and is the value just a property.
It is not a good design if multiple components own the data (can make updates to it). 
Just because the parent needs to set an initial value, this doesn't mean it should own the state.
Clear interfaces: without going into a component it should be clear how it works

How a test harness improves the architecture of your code, I believe that putting your component in storybook achieves the same. This alone shows already that it is weird that a parent needs to know about the inner working of the component (providing it a value and subscribing to its event). A much better design I find that the component manages its own state, independently on whether the parent provides a value or wants to know whether the value has been updated. It can do those things, but the component works just as fine without. 
To achieve this I've written a specific ref, a refReactiveDefault, that can receive a default value and will return this default value until it's value is modified, as of then a deep clone is made and updated. Now at the moment the default changes, the value is reset again.

```ts [file.js]{4-6,7} meta-info=val
export default () => {
  console.log("Code block");
};
```
````
