src/app/content/en/pages/2.portfolio.md, before:

---
title: Portfolio
description: Publicly accessible projects and a commitment to open source—sharing insights and giving back to the developer community through real-world experience.
portfolio:
  - title: Sofia Vera
    description: I designed Sofia-Vera.com in **Figma** and created a theme for **PrestaShop**. Run the whole environment on **Azure Kubernetes Services**.
    link: https://sofia-vera.com
    liClass: lg:row-span-2
    linkClass: max-lg:rounded-t-[2rem] lg:rounded-l-[2rem]
    imgOption: sofiaVera
  - title: Travelbags
    description: We build a high-performance e-commerce platform using **Vue.js**, **SSR**, **Node.js** and **.NET**. The project included CI/CD on **Azure DevOps** and containerization via **Docker**.
    link: https://travelbags.nl
    liClass: max-lg:row-start-2
    imgOption: travelBags
  - title: Pavo
    description:
      With the **travelbags.nl** webshop, we developed a **framework** that enables rapid development of e-commerce platforms.
      <br />
      <br />
      Pavo.nl was the second webshop launched using this framework.
    link: https://pavo.nl
    liClass: max-lg:row-start-3 lg:col-start-2 lg:row-start-2
    imgOption: pavo
  - title: Beauty Plaza
    description: The third webshop we built using the **travelbags.nl** framework. It uses **Vue.js**, **SSR**, **Node.js** and **.NET**, with CI/CD on **Azure DevOps** and containerization via **Docker**.
    link: https://beautyPlaza.com
    liClass: lg:row-span-2
    linkClass: max-lg:rounded-b-[2rem] lg:rounded-r-[2rem]
    imgOption: beautyPlaza
---

# Portfolio

Below is a selection of publicly accessible projects I've worked on.

Much of my work has involved proprietary or internal applications, making it difficult to build a portfolio
that fully reflects my experience. Through this blog and future open source projects, I aim to change that.

In the meantime, feel free to explore some of the projects I can share.

Commit message:

Upgraded to Nuxt Content v3
- Upgraded Nuxt
- Upgraded tailwind & used vite plugin
- Defined multilingual content collections
- Fixed the way we query content
- Fixed the navigation menu

src/app/content/en/pages/2.portfolio.md, after:

---
contentId: 20 # never change this value
title: Portfolio
description: Publicly accessible projects and a commitment to open source—sharing insights and giving back to the developer community through real-world experience.
datePublished: 2025-07-26T18:00:00
dateModified: 2025-10-26T18:00:00
---

::app-prose
# Portfolio

Below is a selection of publicly accessible projects I've worked on.

Much of my work has involved proprietary or internal applications, making it difficult to build a portfolio
that fully reflects my experience. Through this blog and future open source projects, I aim to change that.

In the meantime, feel free to explore some of the projects I can share.
::

::portfolio-grid
---
class: mt-14 lg:mt-20 
portfolio:
  - title: Sofia Vera
    description: I designed Sofia-Vera.com in **Figma** and created a theme for **PrestaShop**. Run the whole environment on **Azure Kubernetes Services**.
    link: https://sofia-vera.com
    liClass: lg:row-span-2
    linkClass: max-lg:rounded-t-4xl lg:rounded-l-4xl
    imgOption: sofiaVera
  - title: Travelbags
    description: We build a high-performance e-commerce platform using **Vue.js**, **SSR**, **Node.js** and **.NET**. The project included CI/CD on **Azure DevOps** and containerization via **Docker**.
    link: https://travelbags.nl
    liClass: max-lg:row-start-2
    imgOption: travelBags
  - title: Pavo
    description:
      With the **travelbags.nl** webshop, we developed a **framework** that enables rapid development of e-commerce platforms.
      <br />
      <br />
      Pavo.nl was the second webshop launched using this framework.
    link: https://pavo.nl
    liClass: max-lg:row-start-3 lg:col-start-2 lg:row-start-2
    imgOption: pavo
  - title: Beauty Plaza
    description: The third webshop we built using the **travelbags.nl** framework. It uses **Vue.js**, **SSR**, **Node.js** and **.NET**, with CI/CD on **Azure DevOps** and containerization via **Docker**.
    link: https://beautyPlaza.com
    liClass: lg:row-span-2
    linkClass: max-lg:rounded-b-4xl lg:rounded-r-4xl
    imgOption: beautyPlaza
---
::
