src/app/content/en/pages/3.about.md, before:

---
title: About
description: Software Engineer and Team Lead with 15+ years experience, sharing practical insights and techniques for building great software from real-world projects.
greeting: Hello, my name is
curriculumVitae:
  - title: Software Engineer | Team Lead
    company: Bach.Software
    date: Jul 2018 - Present
    description: |
      As freelancer I delivered a wide range of full-stack solutions for both public and private sector clients, with a strong focus on scalable, secure and maintainable architectures. Highlights include:
      - Built a secure data management portal for cross-border investigations, using **Kubernetes**, Vue 3, .NET 8, and Azure DevOps, for a large European Institution.
      - Designed and developed several modern e-commerce platforms for B2C and B2B clients, using **Vue.js**, **React**, **Node.js**, and **Salesforce**.
      Projects included implementing server-side rendering, containerized deployments, and CI/CD on **Azure**.
      - Led a cross-functional team of 8, including developers, testers and UX specialist, to deliver a full-featured webshop and customer portal tailored for business users.
    technologies:
      - Vue.js
      - React.js
      - TypeScript
      - .NET
      - Node.js
      - Kubernetes
      - Azure DevOps
      - HTML & CSS

  - title: Co-Founder | Developer
    company: Sofia Vera
    date: Dec 2021 - Jul 2023
    description: |
      Co-founded a luxury women's fashion brand. Led brand identity development, e-commerce implementation, and online marketing strategy. Built and maintained the website and infrastructure. Key contributions:

      - Created a performant and secure **Prestashop**-based e-commerce site.
      - Implemented scalable hosting with **Azure Kubernetes Service** and **Cloudflare Workers**.
    technologies:
      - Prestashop
      - Azure Kubernetes Service
      - Cloudflare Workers
      - HTML & CSS

  - title: Team Lead Microsoft .NET Development
    company: PVH (Tommy Hilfiger, Calvin Klein & others)
    date: Aug 2017 - Jun 2018
    description: |
      Led a 12-person development team at PVH, responsible for hiring, performance management, and aligning individual growth with business goals. Key project:

      - **Customer Management Portal**:
        Developed a portal to support onboarding of new customers into SAP, handling tasks like credit checks and insurance requests.
        Built with **React.js**, **Redux**, and **.NET**, with integrations to SAP.
    technologies:
      - React.js
      - Redux
      - .NET
      - C#
      - SAP Integration

  - title: Senior Microsoft .NET Developer
    company: PVH (Tommy Hilfiger, Calvin Klein & others)
    date: Jun 2014 - Jul 2017
    description: |
      Delivered a variety of employee portals and internal applications within the Microsoft Development team, including:

      - **SAP Customer Setup**, **Chargebacks**, **Trade Discount**, and **Store Master Data** management portals.

      Worked across the full stack using **.NET Forms & MVC**, **C#**, **JavaScript** (with **jQuery**, **React.js**, **Knockout.js**), and **SharePoint**. Built workflows with **NINTEX**, and handled data flows with **SQL Server** and **SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS)**.
    technologies:
      - .NET
      - C#
      - JavaScript
      - jQuery
      - React.js
      - Knockout.js
      - SharePoint
      - NINTEX Workflows
      - SQL Server
      - SSIS

  - title: Software Developer / Consultant
    company: Avanade
    date: Aug 2007 - Aug 2008 & Feb 2010 - May 2014
    description: |
      Delivered enterprise-grade software solutions across multiple industries, including insurance, banking, music licensing, and government. Key projects included:

      - **Achmea - Portal Factory**:
        Led one of two scrum teams to build a reusable component and portal factory to streamline development of customer portals across multiple insurance brands. Acted as **Team Lead** and **Solution Architect**, designing and implementing components using **C#**, **.NET**, and **WCF** integrated via SOAP services.

      - **BUMA/STEMRA - Customer Portal**:
        Built a data-rich portal allowing music rights holders to manage licenses and usage information. Used **ASP.NET Ajax**, **jQuery**, and **WCF** to integrate with ERP and data warehouse systems.

      - **KIWA / AFM / Friesland Bank / Centraal Beheer / ING / PWN**:
        Developed portals using **ASP.NET**, **SharePoint**, **BizTalk**, **WCF**, **CRM**, and front-end tech (HTML, CSS, JavaScript/jQuery) to automate product ordering and customer workflows.

      Projects spanned the full stack, often integrating complex backend systems with responsive, user-focused front ends.
    technologies:
      - C#
      - ASP.NET
      - WCF
      - SOAP
      - jQuery
      - HTML
      - CSS
      - JavaScript
      - SharePoint
      - BizTalk
      - Microsoft CRM
      - SQL Server

  - title: Co-founder / Developer
    company: Eludus
    date: Jan 2007 - Dec 2013 (part-time)
    description: |
      Co-founded Eludus with two friends as a side project, originally intended to build a tournament platform.
      The company evolved into a small digital agency delivering websites, webshops, and custom backend systems for SMEs.
    technologies:
      - C#
      - .NET
      - PHP
      - JavaScript
      - HTML
      - CSS
      - WordPress
      - Magento
      - Flash
---

I'm a Software Engineer and Team Lead with over 15 years of professional experience.
I'm passionate about solving complex problems through simple, elegant solutions.
This blog is where I share techniques and insights for building great software, inspired by real-world projects.

<!--more-->

Scroll down to explore my background and the projects I've worked on.

Commit message:

Upgraded to Nuxt Content v3
- Upgraded Nuxt
- Upgraded tailwind & used vite plugin
- Defined multilingual content collections
- Fixed the way we query content
- Fixed the navigation menu

src/app/content/en/pages/3.about.md, after:

---
contentId: 30 # never change this value
title: About
description: Software Engineer and Team Lead with 15+ years experience, sharing practical insights and techniques for building great software from real-world projects.
datePublished: 2025-07-26T18:00:00
dateModified: 2025-10-26T18:00:00
---

::app-hero
---
intro: Hello, my name is
title: Jeroen Bach
subTitle: Software Engineer & Team Lead
imgSrc: /JEROEN-_A7R5652-HD-SQUARE-zoom.jpg
imgAlt: Jeroen Bach
---
I'm a Software Engineer and Team Lead with over 15 years of professional experience.
I'm passionate about solving complex problems through simple, elegant solutions.
This blog is where I share techniques and insights for building great software, inspired by real-world projects.

<!--more-->

Scroll down to explore my background and the projects I've worked on.
::

::curriculum-vitae-table
---
curriculumVitae:
  - title: Software Engineer | Team Lead
    company: Bach.Software
    date: Jul 2018 - Present
    description: |
      As freelancer I delivered a wide range of full-stack solutions for both public and private sector clients, with a strong focus on scalable, secure and maintainable architectures. Highlights include:
      - Built a secure data management portal for cross-border investigations, using **Kubernetes**, Vue 3, .NET 8, and Azure DevOps, for a large European Institution.
      - Designed and developed several modern e-commerce platforms for B2C and B2B clients, using **Vue.js**, **React**, **Node.js**, and **Salesforce**.
      Projects included implementing server-side rendering, containerized deployments, and CI/CD on **Azure**.
      - Led a cross-functional team of 8, including developers, testers and UX specialist, to deliver a full-featured webshop and customer portal tailored for business users.
    technologies:
      - Vue.js
      - React.js
      - TypeScript
      - .NET
      - Node.js
      - Kubernetes
      - Azure DevOps
      - HTML & CSS

  - title: Co-Founder | Developer
    company: Sofia Vera
    date: Dec 2021 - Jul 2023
    description: |
      Co-founded a luxury women's fashion brand. Led brand identity development, e-commerce implementation, and online marketing strategy. Built and maintained the website and infrastructure. Key contributions:

      - Created a performant and secure **Prestashop**-based e-commerce site.
      - Implemented scalable hosting with **Azure Kubernetes Service** and **Cloudflare Workers**.
    technologies:
      - Prestashop
      - Azure Kubernetes Service
      - Cloudflare Workers
      - HTML & CSS

  - title: Team Lead Microsoft .NET Development
    company: PVH (Tommy Hilfiger, Calvin Klein & others)
    date: Aug 2017 - Jun 2018
    description: |
      Led a 12-person development team at PVH, responsible for hiring, performance management, and aligning individual growth with business goals. Key project:

      - **Customer Management Portal**:
        Developed a portal to support onboarding of new customers into SAP, handling tasks like credit checks and insurance requests.
        Built with **React.js**, **Redux**, and **.NET**, with integrations to SAP.
    technologies:
      - React.js
      - Redux
      - .NET
      - C#
      - SAP Integration

  - title: Senior Microsoft .NET Developer
    company: PVH (Tommy Hilfiger, Calvin Klein & others)
    date: Jun 2014 - Jul 2017
    description: |
      Delivered a variety of employee portals and internal applications within the Microsoft Development team, including:

      - **SAP Customer Setup**, **Chargebacks**, **Trade Discount**, and **Store Master Data** management portals.

      Worked across the full stack using **.NET Forms & MVC**, **C#**, **JavaScript** (with **jQuery**, **React.js**, **Knockout.js**), and **SharePoint**. Built workflows with **NINTEX**, and handled data flows with **SQL Server** and **SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS)**.
    technologies:
      - .NET
      - C#
      - JavaScript
      - jQuery
      - React.js
      - Knockout.js
      - SharePoint
      - NINTEX Workflows
      - SQL Server
      - SSIS

  - title: Software Developer / Consultant
    company: Avanade
    date: Aug 2007 - Aug 2008 & Feb 2010 - May 2014
    description: |
      Delivered enterprise-grade software solutions across multiple industries, including insurance, banking, music licensing, and government. Key projects included:

      - **Achmea - Portal Factory**:
        Led one of two scrum teams to build a reusable component and portal factory to streamline development of customer portals across multiple insurance brands. Acted as **Team Lead** and **Solution Architect**, designing and implementing components using **C#**, **.NET**, and **WCF** integrated via SOAP services.

      - **BUMA/STEMRA - Customer Portal**:
        Built a data-rich portal allowing music rights holders to manage licenses and usage information. Used **ASP.NET Ajax**, **jQuery**, and **WCF** to integrate with ERP and data warehouse systems.

      - **KIWA / AFM / Friesland Bank / Centraal Beheer / ING / PWN**:
        Developed portals using **ASP.NET**, **SharePoint**, **BizTalk**, **WCF**, **CRM**, and front-end tech (HTML, CSS, JavaScript/jQuery) to automate product ordering and customer workflows.

      Projects spanned the full stack, often integrating complex backend systems with responsive, user-focused front ends.
    technologies:
      - C#
      - ASP.NET
      - WCF
      - SOAP
      - jQuery
      - HTML
      - CSS
      - JavaScript
      - SharePoint
      - BizTalk
      - Microsoft CRM
      - SQL Server

  - title: Co-founder / Developer
    company: Eludus
    date: Jan 2007 - Dec 2013 (part-time)
    description: |
      Co-founded Eludus with two friends as a side project, originally intended to build a tournament platform.
      The company evolved into a small digital agency delivering websites, webshops, and custom backend systems for SMEs.
    technologies:
      - C#
      - .NET
      - PHP
      - JavaScript
      - HTML
      - CSS
      - WordPress
      - Magento
      - Flash
---

::
